Now, let's actually go ahead and see how easy it is to query with KSQL.
Now, I know I mentioned that as soon as we stopped running one of these queries,
that we're going to lose the data,
but that doesn't mean this is an incredibly useful thing for us to do.
It's worth mentioning that this kind of querying is
really useful for testing and exploration purposes.
So let's go ahead and try running this first query.
Now we've already seen how to filter data.
We're going to do it one more time just to show you what it looks
like outside of the context of a create statement.
So I'm going to go ahead and say,
"Select the username and amount from purchases,
where the amount is greater than say,
let's do 150,000, and the username starts with a K this time."
So let this run for just a moment,
and you can see we can already see that we're only getting results that match
their query that the values over a 150,000 and the name starts with K. Now,
we can also apply some other scalar functions to our queries,
and this is actually where things get a little interesting.
Now, I understand that this query probably looks totally crazy,
and in a sense that's because it is.
But let's take a look at what we're up to here and explore some of
the scalar functions that KSQL provides to us.
So let's start by just doing a normal select username,
currency, and amount divided by 100,
and we're going to do this from purchases,
again where the value is say, greater than 150,000,
and the username starts with a K. So what we're saying here is I want the username,
the currency, and the amount.
So I don't just want the username and amount,
I also want the amount divided by 100 and I want the currency.
So you can see that you can modify the values so we can divide by 100,
and well, this is interesting.
Maybe I really also want this output to get streamed out as CSV.
I don't actually want three separate columns,
I want one column where everything's concatenated by a comma and a space,
and that's essentially what's going on here.
So KSQL has this very useful function called CONCAT.
So CONCAT says, "I want to take two strings and join them together."
So if we return to this query,
I could say CONCAT username and currency,
and this would merge the two of those things together.
So this isn't a particularly useful thing.
In fact, the output is going to look a little funny,
but you can see that this is how CONCAT works.
It takes the username and it takes the currency and puts them together.
We can do some useful things with this.
So if I wanted to generate that CSV I was talking about,
I can do something like this,
and now if I look at this again,
we can see that I don't have those pipes anymore,
I now have commas.
In addition to that, you'll notice I've also used
the UCASE function to uppercase the username.
So now all of my data is an uppercase.
So this something you could do if you were interested in just outputting
something that'll be friendly for any tool that uses CSV data.
Finally, I just want to reiterate that nothing is running.
So once you hit CTRL+C, the query terminates.
So if I do show queries unlike when we did
create table as or create stream as, there's nothing running.
The query is simply gone.